well howdy there Internet people that's
Bo again so today we're leaving the us
we're going to talk about brexit
specifically how it relates to Ireland
and the border
okay so crash course for Americans real
quick the island of Ireland is divided
between north and south the north is
under control of the UK the south is the
Republic of Ireland the Republic of
Ireland is part of the EU the UK wants
to leave the EU this presents an issue
because that border between Northern
Ireland and the Republic of Ireland is
supposed to be soft it is supposed to be
open more or less the part of the reason
for brexit was to stem migration and
open borders what they're calling open
borders so it creates a very unique
political situation the US and this was
actually public now they've told the UK
they will not back any post brags a
trade deal that doesn't include an open
border on on on the Irish Island the
UK's probably not gonna be happy about
that the message I got was very
concerned if a hard border happens about
a potential upswing in violence yeah
yeah it's not a maybe it's yes if there
is a hard border you can guarantee there
will be Republican violence it's going
to happen for Americans Irish
Republicans are nothing like American
Republicans generally Irish Republicans
are to the left of anything we have in
this country I mean they make Bernie
Sanders look like Trump
so bear that in mind now your message
said you live on an old route it's
probably not an old route it's probably
just dormant if you really want to stay
out of it you have to stay out of it
completely that means if you see
something say nothing okay and that goes
for anything
remove any form of nationalist symbol on
either side from your vehicle from the
outside of your home I don't know which
passport you have but you keep that to
yourself don't get involved at all if
you know if you were to see something on
that route and say something they will
kill you or kneecap you the other thing
you have to keep in mind is that during
the last big upsurge in violence it took
a little bit of training to make the
explosives you had to have been involved
in in the movement it's now true anymore
because of Islamic groups putting
training mint material online it's
available to anybody so it's not gonna
be fertilizer and coffee grinders
anymore they're gonna have a whole new
set of explosives and they can be done
they can be manufactured by people who
are operating alone that makes it a
little bit more scary the good news is
that typically the Republican side was
pretty good about giving warning about
bombs they really were I would imagine
with today's technology there will be
some form of text message on your cell
phone when a warning comes through pay
attention you'll stay out of whatever
area develops as a hotbed just stay out
of it you there's no reason to go there
whatever that area is there's no reason
to go
now another change in dynamic was during
the last period the royal family and the
British establishment was off-limits
today there's enough dissatisfaction
with them that the Republican command
may not see it as a as something to keep
off-limits so there may be there may be
activity in in England which would be I
mean aside from a few attacks that
didn't happen but it may be over there
although I would definitely expect
violence along any hard border I would
just hope that it doesn't happen because
it's it's not a maybe it will it will
cause violence and we're at that point
it's generational you know eight hundred
years and every generation sometimes it
skips a generation but there's an
upsurge in violence we're at we're
hitting that point right now anyway
this is just throwing a match on the
powder keg so anyway good news you asked
is there any good two can come of this
yeah anytime a government entity
fractures and gets smaller it's more
responsive to the people now if you do
hold sympathies to an idea of a united
Ireland this may cause it because the
Brits may decide that they don't want
they don't want to deal with it anymore
you know it's funny
all of this time we've been by bullets
and bombs it may be decided by balance
anyway that's just a thought you have a
good night stay safe